welcome back everyone to another CHP
episode number 197 this time part 1 in a
multi-part series in which I'm going to
attempt to offer you another patented
CHP overview of this long and well often
adversarial relationship but as history
goes it's a good one in this effort of
mine to encapsulate the milestones and
then some of the history of China
Vietnam relations I'd also like to seize
on the opportunity while I have it to
also give you a brief and hopefully not
too complicated general survey of
Vietnamese history it took me something
like 27 episodes to do that cursory
overview of Chinese imperial history
shot two Ching and I'm sure it would
take about the same amount of time to
cover Vietnam stem to stern so I hope
any Vietnamese listening or anyone
already expert on the subject please cut
me a little slack I'm guessing most of
you haven't delved too deep in the
Vietnam history after digesting this
little Deku stasi own I'm gonna put
together for you if you'd like you can
do your own personal deep dive my fellow
American skis well sometimes our
understanding of Vietnamese history
tends to start only at the Gulf of
Tonkin Resolution so at least let me
disabuse anyone here of that notion it
actually goes back quite a lot further
than that and being the China history
podcast a certified paid in full member
of the recorded history podcast network
recorded history dotnet I wanted to
present Vietnamese history through the
lens of China relations as tempting as
it is I don't want to turn this into a
series where I try and scrunch 3,000
years of Vietnam history into a four or
five part series hope you don't mind
that I've left out great swaths of
Vietnam history there certainly are a
lot of books written on the subject my
two main sources and I heartily
recommend them both
as superb all-in-one General histories
of Vietnam in English anyway Cornell
University professor of Vietnamese
studies Keith Taylor a history of the
Vietnamese Canberra JH University Press
that one came out in 2013 the other one
I fancied was Yale professor Ben cannons
Vietnam in history from earliest times
to the present Oxford University Press
that one came out in 2017 besides those
two there's plenty of other good sources
look on a map the border of northern
Vietnam part of it borders Yunnan and
the other longer part of the border
divides Vietnam from guanxi but it
wasn't always like that before all these
borders got put in place it was an
amorphous confederation of all kinds of
tribes populating the hills mountains
and river valleys with an indigenous
culture completely unrecognizable to the
modern Vietnamese of today these were
not the ginn people that know yet the
the race who make up something like 85
to 90% of the population of that country
today there are many things the two
nations have in common one of them is
that in Vietnam just as in China their
civilization began along a very great
river Chinese Civic an up and down the
Yellow River Valley in North China in
Vietnam it all started in the Red River
Valley in the north the home huh and
what Xian and more young were to ancient
China
that's what Hanoi was to Vietnam as we
wend our way through the history you'll
see in almost all cases all the action
takes place in and around Hanoi let me
preface everything I'm about to say by
mentioning Viet Nam's somach in their
Herodotus they're great historian who
first chronicled the history of the Viet
people lave unhu' he didn't come along
till the Vietnamese Chun Dynasty 13th
14th century that means that everything
there is about Vietnamese history from
mythical
times until the Mongol invasions came
from Chinese sources now that isn't a
bad thing Chinese historians were
meticulous to a tee but history was
something that should have always served
the dynasty in which the historian was
serving not the one he was writing about
so anything written about Vietnam
history
well how accurate the info is the dates
names and actions and I guess you can
trust it as much as you could trust any
other two dozen histories of China
starting with the Sergi the records of
the grand historian all the way up to
the manger of the 18th century who knows
how true the narrations are to the
actual events a lot of times that's all
we got it's often the case that for much
of the history there's a Chinese version
and the Vietnamese version I'm gonna try
my best to get as close as possible with
all the Vietnamese names and places
despite being married to uh Vietnamese
for thirty years I never picked up that
language it's not like Chinese at all a
lot of words were borrowed and became
part of the Vietnamese language but it
isn't Chinese and I was never able to
pick it up so to all Vietnamese around
the world who are tuning in to this
episode and rolling your eyes at my
pronunciation toy scene LOI the source
of the Red River is in the mountains of
Yunnan near Dali and it flows southeast
emptying out in the Gulf of Tonkin if
you look at a map there are countless
tributaries that make this most ancient
part of Vietnam a watered world that
formed a massive Delta this was Ground
Zero how important was the Red River to
the early development of Vietnam and
it's probably about the same as the
Yellow River is importance to China
there was another striking similarity
between the two rivers just as the
Yellow River would carry this yellow
brownish colored silt from the hills and
plateaus of Ching hai Gansu Xiang XI so
did the Red River and in an endless flow
dictated by nature the reddish-brown
would ride with the river current south
eastwards and all that silt would
inevitably back up and form new lands in
the Delta region ever expanding outward
and this was most fertile land and
farmers would find it like a miner knows
where to dig for ore and from that
central locus evolved a whole thriving
society the Delta today is about 15,000
square kilometres and 150 kilometres and
width the area used to be chalk filled
with saltwater crocodiles these were
probably the hilum or sea dragons
written about in the Bronze Age the Red
River Delta this cradle of Vietnamese
civilization is home to about 19 million
people today water new was one of Viet
Nam's defining characteristics it gave
life and took it away in Vietnamese note
not only means water it's another word
for country Viet Nam's history is
intertwined with 3,000 years of profound
weather patterns that yielded either too
much rain or drought conditions and Viet
Nam's history throughout the centuries
was one of reacting to all these
changing weather patterns very early on
the people of this Red River Delta
region began calling themselves the viet
VI ET or as the chinese called them
though yet affect all these people of
South China were grouped together in
this catch-all yeah term collectively
they were called the by.ya or hundred
yet they had different languages and
customs and none of which fit the mold
of the northern Chinese washa culture
that had hatched during the Cho dynasty
the buyeth stretched from the Yangtze
River region all the way south to below
the Red River in Vietnam by means a
hundred yeah the yet people of which
there were many all with different
customs languages leaders and stages of
development in their sophistication and
Vietnamese they were called the
that the Shung oracle bones refer
to these yet people the ones in the east
of China injured young we mentioned them
in the past perhaps you may recall the
year king goujian and his epic battles
with king foutch i of wool these judge
young based yeah after their lands were
conquered by the chu in 333 BCE they
migrated to the south of China where
there was a higher concentration of
these yet people ancient texts described
these by yet as a very warlike and
violent group of people who knew how to
handle ships on the water we're still
trying to figure out who exactly these
you were they weren't all conveniently
one people with one language and shared
culture the Cantonese people too came
from these yet but they use a different
Chinese character for Europe and the one
used for the you have people down in
Vietnam one of these tribes of Europe or
Viet with a lock and while the rest of
the buyer get themselves conquered by
the Chinese and ultimately mix
themselves into the Chinese cultural pot
the LOC Viet people emerging all around
the Red River Delta are going to
stubbornly cling to what they had as far
as their own distinct Southeast Asia
austro-asiatic culture and Hmong khmer
language went in though a thousand years
of Chinese influence will lead to many
changes there will be a long war of
attrition by these Naevia to accentuate
the Viet aspect of their culture and
de-emphasize what China brought to those
lands they had their own identity and
beliefs and despite the magnificence and
sophistication of Chinese culture they
were never interested to get mixed up in
the Han Chinese hot pot like the other
bye yes south of the Yangtze not in
language food clothing and other customs
and beliefs that was one constant theme
and synovial a Shinto 2,000 years ago a
civilization like China couldn't help
but think they were exceptional
wouldn't want to be like them well down
in the Red River Valley they thought the
same thing about themselves and the
best-known legends of the nation taught
in the public schools in Vietnam usually
have something to do with some great
king or hero who at some dark hour
rescued the Viet nation from the
clutches of Chinese domination most
people familiar with Vietnam will often
divide the country up into three main
regions all with their own styles of
cuisine
music accents and whatnot well from the
earliest of early days Vietnam was also
divided up into North Central and South
North border China and was on and off
overwhelmed by Chinese culture and
influence the central parts became home
to a variety of non Viet Southeast Asian
people and in the south of Vietnam that
was more heavily Indian influenced
mainly due to trade with India and later
with the introduction of Hinduism so you
had three completely separate and
distinct things going on at the same
time in what is today one single country
and what you ultimately got in the end
what there is today there's a blend of
the best that all these civilizations
languages and cultures had to offer plus
everything else acquired from China
along the way there was a whole other
world going on in southern Vietnam I'm
gonna leave that to the history of
Southeast Asia podcast host to teach you
about that that area again a whole other
world from what was happening in the
northern third of Vietnam that would
become a trading powerhouse from the
earliest times these seafaring people
down in the South carried out commerce
with kingdoms and empires that would one
day become the nations of Cambodia Laos
Thailand Myanmar Malaysia Brunei India
and Sri Lanka and look on a map you
could see why but the core region where
Vietnamese civilization began of where
our story mostly takes place was still
the
Red River Delta and being so close to
China as it was it was only natural that
the impact of Chinese culture would be
the strongest on that region just as
Jews and Muslims claim Abraham or
Ibrahim as a common ancestor so do China
and Vietnam with he who discovered tea
Chinese medicine the calendar and a
hundred other things Sun Dome the divine
farmer in Vietnamese he's called tan Nam
according to suma Chen shun known lived
during the third millennium BCE 2787 BCE
I believe is the date ascribed to his
birth the hound bang dynasty in Vietnam
2879 a 258 BCE and was a Bronze Age
dynasty contemporary with the Shah Chun
and Joe both in China and Vietnam they
had their own totally separate Bronze
Age development their first king Kim
Jung Woon according to Vietnamese lore
was descended from tional boom aside
from being the same as the Chinese
character for the surname Wang also
means King he was considered Viet Nam's
first king he was succeeded by his son
who's known as lack long gone the dragon
Lord of luck
Lachlan kun is another legendary
ancestor that lack Viet the ancestors of
the kin or Moy yet the Vietnamese pardon
my pronunciation again there is an
ancient legend that says LOC long gone
this descendant of Shandong tan Nam and
his wife oh good between the two of them
spawned a hundred sons half of which
populated the lands of the Red River
Delta region and the other half went to
the hills and mountains that surrounded
that watered plain these lakh people as
they were called lived in a land called
El loc or old law whenever possible I'll
give you the Chinese as well as the
Vietnamese and as I always do I'll post
all these terms used in this episode on
my website at tea cup media I love
everything sorted out in pinyin
Vietnamese Chinese and
English all for your inconvenience
and at no additional charge not yet
anyway the founder of El loc was took
fan he was the conquer of the home band
dynasty and ruled a lock from 2:57 at
2:07 BCE this hola kingdom down along
the Red River was contemporary with the
warring States period to the end of the
chin Confucius had already come and gone
by this time took fun is more popularly
known as an jung-geun King on young on
young Wong in Chinese and it was on the
Red River in the vicinity of modern-day
Hanoi that King on young built his
capital and that became the epicenter
where the cultural foundation of Vietnam
first took roots and it pretty much
stays that way only with a small gap
here and there like more than a few of
Viet Nam's Royals over the centuries
annual originally came from China he was
a former shoe prince whose clan fled
south east to Guang XI and ultimately to
the Red River plain why were they
fleeing of course to escape the
aftermath of the conquest of shoe in 316
BCE all covered in previous episodes the
chin before unification rolled into Shu
and took that part of China
today's citron province and pasted it on
to their expanding Qin state unless we
forget both the state of Shu centered
around Chengdu and next door to the east
in ba state modern-day Chongqing this
was the first place in the world where
tea was cultivated and we all owe them a
debt of thanks for that you can point to
the year Qin Shihuang achieve
unification in China 221 BCE as the
genesis of jeong jaeyuk when she china
via trial asians once he finished off
the last of the six remaining warring
states and set himself up as China's
first quanti or Emperor Qin Shihuang
immediately went on a land acquisition
frenzy and one of the places he sent his
army was to the - Guang
guanxi and guangdong the chiyan army
went in and took that place over and
followed that up with a wave of Han
Chinese settlers who took the Emperor up
on his offer to go populate these new
lands a lot of empty spaces got filled
up and wherever Chinese went so when
Chinese culture and traditions between
221 and 214 BCE there were five military
campaigns that went in and conquered
these yet all their lands were annexed
it became part of China still are today
Jiujiang Fujian Guangdong Guangxi and of
course in northern Vietnam yeah
the hundred-year didn't know anything
about any borders yet once the yeah were
under control a new June or commander II
was established as it was like off this
was like a fort or military base and
prefecture all rolled into one
it was headquartered in Guangzhou and
that's where that city got its start and
from that point on third century BCE
Guangzhou began its rise as China's
premier foreign trading port and the man
who was in charge down there was named
cha cha
he's shown up in more than a few CHP
episodes in Vietnamese child Paul was
known as Jude I he was sent down to the
commander II and 208 BCE
right when the Titanic was sinking and
the scene was on its way out and so soon
after its founding - with essentially no
one in charge of the government
chow hall became a renegade general and
as the Chien ship of state slipped
beneath the surface and passed into
history he took matters into his own
hands and all the lands contained in the
southernmost commander II of China were
turned into a kingdom and chow hall made
himself the king and he called this
Kingdom 9uf Nam Viet
drawing his inspiration from the year of
the church young area and their great
ruler coach in and as soon as he
established this Kingdom Chow US forces
went in and put a dramatic end to King
on young and the out
kingdom his troops captured the tango
law the main fortress at the Capitol
today located in the dome on district of
Hanoi an jung-geun was forced to flee
the scene
part of this Nonya kingdom included the
whole Red River Delta region there was
no Clare marking where China ended in
Vietnam began so all of northern Vietnam
was lumped together with portions of
Guangdong and Guangxi
in this Nonya or nam viet kingdom the
capital was in pond you conveniently
located in the watered world of the
Pearl River Delta southeast of Guangzhou
Jaya is called the founder of the Zhu
dynasty in Vietnam in a way that Kublai
Khan was the founder of the UN he was a
Mongol who was an emperor of China child
hua was a Han Chinese who was the
founding emperor of the Qing Dynasty
this is a Vietnamese dynasty it wasn't
part of the Chinese imperial chronology
child hua is mainly credited with
transforming that region and being the
first to bring down all that good and
great jo dynasty culture the stem cell
so to speak for all the richness and
delights of Chinese culture to follow
that she and dynasty had and lasted long
but there was still plenty that came out
of it and child hua was the vessel who
brought it to Vietnam depending on your
outlook Judah was either an invader or a
civilizing force as child hua was
building his kingdom and mind you he
according to the record he lived to 103
years of age and as you know China
finally gets it together after the fall
of the Qin and after the chul Han
contention goes down in 202 BCE and Leo
Poong comes out on top after the Battle
of gaya
after everything settles down the hung
Emperor Gaozu decided he wanted his lost
commander II back a child hua defied the
hun Emperor and wasn't terribly
forthcoming about where his loyalties
lie to deal with this impasse hongou Tzu
sent his most trusted official Lu Jia
down to the Nonya capital in ponnu
to work on child wah and talk some sense
into him
196 BC e lucha met face to face with
child wah and they worked out a kind of
deal whereby child wall would be able to
remain a king but he had to acknowledge
hongou sue as the emperor in other words
not as equals that kept things bearable
for the meanwhile until 183 BCE when
taking advantage of the unrest following
the death of hongou soo child wah
declared himself the nun rule D now this
translates to the nine-year warrior
emperor like hon ruled eat later on
there was a world of difference between
being a king and being a nampara an
emperor could talk directly with heaven
a king well heaven didn't bother with
him once again child towards presumption
of equality antagonized the han court
and lucha again was sent down to go
bring child Pau to his senses and by the
way stop attacking the southern frontier
of China but in that act of declaring
himself an unwieldy child hua Zhu da got
written into the history books as the
first emperor of Vietnam 179 BCE child
hua to keep the peace and hedge his bets
strategically dropped the an angle D
title and during the splendid reign of
Han Emperor wen and Qing things were
peaceful for a while at least between
the nine-year Kingdom and China but
child Paul died 137 BCE and was
succeeded by his grandson Chou more or
Jim Matt let's just say straight out he
was no child wall and it was under his
watch that nine yet returned to the
China fold it all started when the mean
yeah or the yeah of Fujian province they
had invaded nine yeah and became a clear
and present danger to Emperor cha more
so in a time-honored tradition from here
on out he ran to the Chinese emperor for
military assistance against this
antagonist who was trying to take him
down
and as part of the deal in exchange for
Han China's help in intervening Chao
more to cleared his kingdom a vassal of
Han China and to show his sincerity he
sent his own son to the Han Court as a
hostage true to their word the Han army
went in and got the mean you had to back
off from invading nine yet the mean yet
will remain in the picture until the end
of the Han beginning of the Three
Kingdoms period before they join all the
other tribes who fell to Chinese
invasion and were assimilated into the
ever-growing nation and when jamort died
in 122 BCE this son the one he sent to
Chung on that the Han capital is a
hostage he became the third emperor of
nine yet after the death of John more
and this new emperor yang Qi was allowed
to return to nine yet by the way 21
centuries after the second nine-year
Emperor John Maud I'd construction
workers in Guangzhou stumbled on his
tomb in 1983 in the US show district of
Guangzhou and today you could see
artifacts at the Sehun nan you have Wong
Bhagwan the Western hung nan you at King
museum you can go check out John Moores
Jade burial suit pretty cool if you
never saw him one of those before
as I said this third Nonya King jollying
Jeju and they won 22 to 115 BCE he was
the eldest son of John ma he's mainly
remembered as a ruthless bloodthirsty
tyrant who murdered his own citizens not
the first and not the last one in
history to do that the nyaya kingdom
turned a corner here and by this third
Emperor's time it was decidedly in a
downward trajectory by the time of the
fourth emperor it was one of those
Empress Dowager child Emperor kind of
things which rarely if ever ends well in
the end it came down to a nine year at
Prime Minister Liu Jia not Lu Jia the
great Confucian scholar official who
dealt with child wah on behalf of hongou
su this Lu Jia led a conspiracy that led
to the murder of both the young Nonya
Emperor
the Empress Dowager lucha Veerappan put
the Emperor's brother on the throne and
feeling confident he declared war on the
Han Empire the Nonya army after managing
to rebuff Chinese attempts at working
things out diplomatically and after
defeating Han forces in a limited battle
earn the wrath of the han emperor wu d
no one to mess around with
he sent six armies marching south over a
hundred thousand troops down to nine yet
and after taking the capital upon you
the forces of Nanuet were defeated in a
milestone year of 111 BCE lidia and v 9u
@ king Genda were captured and ended up
with the head displayed on the end of
the pike treatment once
Nonya was taken han chinese again
flooded the zone to keep the
sonification process going down there
Nonya phnom via including all these
former hola clans and vietnam were
annexed to han china that marked the end
of Nadia and the start of the first
period of domination by China and
Vietnam which lasted from 111 BCE to 39
C II for almost a thousand years
thereafter I was in on again off again
period of Chinese domination of northern
Vietnam it lasted from 111 BCE all the
way up to 938 after the bloody and messy
ending of the Tang Dynasty in China
Vietnamese call this period the backtalk
orb a shoe in mandarin this whole Nonya
kingdom that included parts of guangdong
guangxi and northern vietnam is called
the Ling nan area Ling nan refers to
that part of China south of the nan
lingman that separates the Pearl River
Basin from the Yangtze Valley
Hainan is also considered to be under
the umbrella of Ling nan culture as are
the do choose Jaquez and Chong's in
popular usage Ling nan culture and
Canton
Hong Kong Macau culture are used
interchangeably but Ling nan is so much
more the culture of this Ling nan area
provided a splendid addition to the
northern wash a culture that had already
been developing for over a thousand
years the newly conquered Nonya Kingdom
was renamed Chow jure or Vietnamese Yoji
they better get used to that name
gl the Chinese won't be calling the
place yet nan or Vietnam for a long long
time for all of ancient and early
history it'll always be JAL the Hun had
succeeded down south where the Qin had
come up short the Hun set up nine June
or commanderies to administer Chao Chur
three of which were based in Vietnam
Chao jure Jojen and sir none a lot of
the action over the next several
centuries will more often than not be
centered around these three places all
in the north
although the gel jur region contained
the whole of the Red River Delta
including Hanoi it didn't mean all the
locals were happy to be part of China
although Chinese culture and influence
was flooding into gel chair there always
remained a popular resistance to
sonification in fact this resistance
never led up there was always at any
given time some tribe or clan or ethnic
group that resisted the Chinese and
viewed these outsiders as invaders one
notable period of unrest was called the
LOC rebellion of 39 to 43 seee this
brief moment in time is one of the
proudest moments in Vietnam history in
fact very early on even before I got
married I remember my father-in-law over
bottles of 33 bear telling me about this
story it was my first taste of Vietnam
history this concerns the LOC rebellion
and the 3-year rule of the drone sisters
the hypogeum June Chuck and Jenny in
Chinese they were known as junk
young are they were the daughters of a
lock Lord both sisters were married to
the same husband who was the son of
another lock Lord and Choucha all the
details we have of this story comes
solely from Chinese sources the later
book of Han the whole Han Xu these were
two of the greatest national heroes or
heroines from Vietnam history why
because they stood up to China and for a
brief moment expelled them from Choucha
why did they rise up well why does any
group of people rise up because of
oppression by their overlords elder
sister Jeong Chuck was the true leader
of this rebellion the two sisters raised
an army starting off in their home turf
of Mei Lin just northeast of Hanoi on
the other side of the Red River and
their top military command were all
women and the rebellion began in the
spring of 39 the air the dog this was
the reign of Caligula over in Rome the
rebellion was very focused in one area
got weaker the further you wandered from
Hanoi they inspired more than they led a
revolt against the Han administration
other clans joined up but not in support
of the Jun sisters they were in it for
their own reasons the whole idea of a
Vietnam Nation hadn't happened quite yet
no one had unified these Viet people
into one yet so the summer of 41 Eastern
Han struck back by land and sea to
retake JAL Chur they were led by general
mcgrann one of Han Gwang was most
trusted generals and officials by the
spring of 42 the Imperial Army reached
the area around Hanoi and from that base
and buck Ninh Province that went in for
the kill
there are varying stories regarding the
demise of the hypogeum but in early 43
both sisters were captured killed and
decapitated along with a thousand other
rebels and the two sisters heads were
sent to the capital in-law young in
September 43 the drone sisters were
dealt with but the luck revolt and Kjell
jerk continued on still it took a while
but coucher was finally
classified by the eastern Han military
just as a war down French and American
troops later on the climate in that part
of Vietnam was brutal for the invading
Chinese migrant had written quote when I
was between Lombok and Dai foo and the
rebels were not yet subdued rain fell
vapors rose
there were pestilential emanations and
the heat was unbearable
end quote Americans would be saying the
same thing 1922 years later yeah that
was yet another common theme that ran
throughout Vietnamese history anyone not
used to the heat and humidity in those
latitudes found it unbearable migrants
forces were not the first to wilt in
that climate for his victory my un was
amply rewarded with titles and riches
but half his Expeditionary Force
perished from fighting or disease in
Vietnam where he's known as my vien he's
listed in the rogues gallery section not
a hero in Vietnam that's for sure
so there was a very brief three-year
period of Independence when Vietnam was
able to shake off their Chinese rulers
after 247 years but it wasn't long
lasting part of the fallout from my UN's
victory over the Truman sisters was that
most of the LOC Viet aristocracy were
put to the sword and slowly replaced
with a more Chinese influenced culture
and administration style this is where
the process went into overdrive
those Lakhvi who remained behind had to
watch as their culture which had been
slowly disappearing since the fall of
old lock in 179 BCE become even more and
more sinus eyes by no means was thus a
one-way transformation those Han Chinese
who came from the north and who ended up
in Vietnam not only did they contribute
to the sinuses ation but they themselves
were over time transformed in the other
direction by the Viet culture that had
evolved in the Red River Valley so the
influence actually went in two
directions Purdue
something unique in no way do I want to
say Chinese culture replaced Vietnamese
culture this never happened I'm pretty
sure it never will in the fall of 44 my
urine declared it was mission
accomplished and returned north one of
the cultural symbols of authority of the
old Locke had always been these bronze
drums his bronze ceremonial drums large
and small that were seized by the Han
Imperial forces in what was surely a
horrible blow to the people they're
these symbolic bronze drums were melted
down and recast into other images that
were presented to the Hun emperor
guangwu bronze columns were cast and
erected in the border areas of Chau Chau
in the north and south that marked the
territory most trade prior to this
period in the eastern Han came overland
via the Silk Roads but now more and more
maritime trade was happening and no
longer was the Nonya capital of Ponyo
where they went
more and more trade shifted south to the
Red River Delta this early anno domini
era witnessed a great flourishing of
South Sea trade and the emergence of the
maritime Silk Road I 136 137 the unrest
in the Viet areas was constant Chinese
would try to pacify through appeasement
and other means but as soon as they went
away the locals would rise up again
there were constant insurrections these
tribes down in this region had grown
rich and powerful from the South Sea
trade and had become very independent
minded and not so willing to have the
Chinese telling them what to do and the
further south you went the worse it was
for China so Chinese soldiers rarely
ventured any further south than diffusor
none that was the southernmost commander
II located in central Vietnam not too
far from way incidentally in the book of
later Han the whole Han Xu it stated
that in 166 a trade mission from da
Chien
came to JAL Geron their way to China
that Sheen was the name for Rome this
was during the time of Marcus or
Milius these traders were after silk and
other things that china was famous for
this was the first known encounter
between ancient rome and vietnam if no
one objects too vehemently I'm gonna
close the book here until we can convene
again next time
starting in 177 sure Shia enters the
picture and Vietnam he's known as seeing
it or see voom
other than having a minor tongue twister
of a name he takes center stage for the
next big thing to happen in the history
of China Vietnam relations so I will
just have to leave you all hanging until
we meet again you're thinking I may be
going to Taiwan for your next holiday
that's the new cool destination to go in
Asia I've been there myself since John
Chiang Wall was president but when I do
make my way over there I'm calling my
Taiwan tour no matter you're a day
tripper or looking for a ten day
extravaganza my Taiwan tour.com try them
out ask for Josh we'll get you all taken
care of I'm not meaning to sit here and
toot my horn about this or anything but
the China history podcast comes to you
via the recorded history podcast network
great stuff like the history of
literature American history two
portraits of blue and gray the human
circus journeys into the medieval world
history in the making history in
hindsight and of course the Dan Carlin
of the network ray Harris jr. and the
history of world war two podcast you can
get them anywhere not one single podcast
aggregator has turned us down to date
all these podcasts personally
recommended by me your humble narrator
okay sure yeah next time I bet you can't
say that ten times real fast
lszl Montgomery signing off from a
wet-and-wild Los Angeles California
spring is right around the corner and
from the looks of it prosperity as well
take care everyone
and please don't bail on me just yet
we're only in the second century got a
long way to go before that 1979 border
war hang tight and if I'm lucky I'll see
you next time for another exciting
episode of the China history podcast
you